---
bookCollapseSection: false
weight: 1
---

After digestion of a piece of cake that contains four, milk, and sucrose as its primary ingredients, the major carbohydrate products entering the blood are which one of the following? Choose the best answer.

* A) Glucose
* B) Fructose and galactose
* C) Galactose and glucose
* D) Fructose and glucose
* E) Glucose, fructose, galactose

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Glucose, fructose, galactose
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which one of the following transporters increases its uptake of glucose in response to insulin?

* A) GLUT 1
* B) GLUT 2
* C) GLUT 3
* D) GLUT 4

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) GLUT 4
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which organ does NOT require a constant supply of glucose from the blood for energy during a fast?

* A) RBCs
* B) Brain
* C) Pancrease
* D) Liver

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) Liver

*can produce its own through gluconeogenesis*
{{< /expand >}}

---

How is low GLUT4 activity relevant to diabetes?

* A) It causes retinopathy
* B) It prevents glucose utilization by cells
* C) It stimulates fructose uptake by cells
* D) Leads to hyper stimulation of glycolysis

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) It prevents glucose utilization by cells.
{{< /expand >}}

---

A man collapses while running a marathon and is taken to the ER. His blood is found to be somewhat acidic and further tests show increased lactate dehydrogenase activity. This enzyme is involved in which of the following pathways?

* A) Anaerobic glycolysis
* B) Citric Acid Cycle
* C) Pentose Phosphate Pathway
* D) Beta-oxidation of fatty acids

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A) Anaerobic glycolysis
{{< /expand >}}

---

When insulin is released, it acts to increase the absorption of glucose into skeletal muscle predemoninantly through which of the following transporters?

* A) GLUT 1
* B) GLUT 2
* C) GLUT 3
* D) GLUT 4

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) GLUT 4
{{< /expand >}}

---

Glucose uptake by:

* A) Brain cells is through energy requiring active transporters
* B) Intestinal mucosal cells requires insulin
* C) Liver cells through facilitated diffusion involving a glucose transporter
* D) Most cells is through simple diffusion up a concentration gradient

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
C) Liver cells through facilitated diffusion involving a glucose transporter
{{< /expand >}}

---

After a large, well-balanced meal, all of the following substances would be expected to be elevated EXCEPT:

* A) Fatty acids
* B) Insulin
* C) Glucose
* D) Glucagon

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) Glucagon
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which one of the following statements is true for anabolic pathways only?

* A) Their irreversible (nonequilibrium) reactions are regulated
* B) They are called cycles if they regenerate an intermediate
* C) They are convergent and generate a few simple products
* D) They are synthetic and require energy

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D) They are synthetic and require energy
{{< /expand >}}

---

Compared with the resting state, vigorously contracting skeletal muscle shows:

* A) decreased AMP/ATP ratio
* B) decreased levels of fructose 2,6-bisphosphate
* C) decreased NADH/NAD+ ratio
* D) increased oxygen availability
* E) increased reduction of pyruvate to lactate

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) increased reduction of pyruvate to lactate
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which one of the following statements concerning gluconeogenesis is correct?

* A) it is an energy-producing process
* B) it is important in maintaining blood glucose during a fast
* C) it is inhibited by a fall in the insulin-to-glucagon ratio
* D) it occurs in cytosol of muscle cells
* E) it uses carbon skeletons provided by fatty acid degradation

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B) it is important in maintaining blood glucose during a fast
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which reaction would be inhibited in the presence of large amounts of avidin, an egg white protein that binds and sequesters to biotin?

* A) PEP -> Pyruvate
* B) Pyruvate -> lactate
* C) Pyruvate -> Acetyl CoA
* D) Pyruvate -> Alanine
* E) Pyruvate -> Oxaloacetate

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E) Pyruvate -> Oxaloacetate
{{< /expand >}}

---

Epinephrine and glucagon have which one of the following effects on hepatic glycogen metabolism?

* A. Both glycogen phosphorylase and glycogen synthase are activated by phosphorylation but at significantly different rates.
* B. Glycogen phosphorylase is inactivated by the resulting rise in calcium, whereas glycogen synthase is activated
* C. Glycogen phosphorylase is phosphorylated and active, whereas glycogen synthase is phosphorylated and inactive.
* D. The net synthesis of glycogen is increased.

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
C. Glycogen phosphorylase is phosphorylated and active, whereas glycogen synthase is phosphorylated and inactive.
{{< /expand >}}

---

In contracting skeletal muscle, a sudden elevation of the sarcoplasmic calcium concentration will result in:

* A. Activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A
* B. Conversion of cAMP to AMP by phosphodiesterase
* C. Direct activation of glycogen synthase b
* D. Direct activation of phosphorylase kinase b
* E. Inactivation of phosphorylase kinase a by the action of protein phosphatase-1

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D. Direct activation of phosphorylase kinase b
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which one of the following reactions is unique to gluconeogenesis?

* A. 1,3-Bisphosphoglycerate -> 3-phosphoglycerate
* B. Lactate -> Pyruvate
* C. OAA -> PEP
* D. PEP -> Pyruvate

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
C. OAA -> PEP
{{< /expand >}}

---

The conversion to pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A and carbon dioxide:

* A. Involves the participation of lipoic acid
* B. Is activated when pyruvate decarboxylase of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) is phosphorylated by PDH kinase in presence of ATP.
* C. Is reversible
* D. Occurs in the cytosol
* E. Requires the coenzyme biotin

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A. Involves the participation of lipoic acid
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which one of the following conditions decreases the oxidation of acetyl coenzyme A by the citric acid cycle?

* A. A high availability of calcium
* B. A high acetyl CoA/CoA ratio
* C. A low ATP/ADP ratio
* D. A low NAD+/NADPH ratio

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
D. A low NAD+/NADPH ratio
{{< /expand >}}

---

A + B + FAD + H2O --> FADH2 + C + NADH
Answers: Reactant A, B, then C

* A. Succinyl CoA, GDP, Succinate
* B. Succinate, NAD+, oxaloacetate
* C. Fumarate, NAD+, oxaloacetate
* D. Succinate, NAD+, Malate
* E. Fumarate, GTP, Malate

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
B. Succinate, NAD+, oxaloacetate
{{< /expand >}}

---

A 1-month old male shows neurologic problems and lactic acidosis. Enzyme assay for pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) activity on extracts of cultured skin fibroblasts showed 5% of normal activity with a low concentration of thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) but 80% of normal activity when the assay contained a thousand-fold higher concentration of TPP. Which one of the following statements concerning the patient is correct?

* A. Administration of thiamine is expected to reduce his serum lactate level and improve his clinical symptoms
* B. A high-carb diet would be expected to be beneficial for the patient.
* C. Citrate production from aerobic glycolysis is expected to be increased
* D. PDH Kinase, A regulatory enzyme of the PDHC is expected to be active

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
A. Administration of thiamine is expected to reduce his serum lactate level and improve his clinical symptoms
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which coenzyme-cosubstrate is used by dehydrogenases in both glycolysis and the TCA cycle?

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
NAD+
{{< /expand >}}

---

Given that the Km of glucokinase for glucose is 10mM whereas that of hexokinase is 0.1 mM, which isoenzyme will more closely approach Vmax at the normal blood glucose concentration of 5 mM.

{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
Hexokinase
{{< /expand >}}

---

Which of the following has the strongest tendency to gain electrons?

* A. Coenzyme Q
* B. Cytochrome C
* C. FAD
* D. NAD
* E. Oxygen


{{< expand "answer" "..." >}}
E. Oxygen
{{< /expand >}}

---

In preparation for a trip to an area of India where chloroquine-resistant malaria is endemic, a young man is given primaquine prophylactically. Soon thereafter, he develops a hemolytic condition due to a deficiency in glucose 6-P dehydrogenase. A less-than-normal level of which of the following is a consequence of the enzyme deficiency and the underlying cause of the hemolysis?

A. Glucose 6-P
B. Oxidized form of NAD
C. Reduced form of GSH
D. Ribose 5-P
